The most delicate and soft part of a bike
is its tyres, its alloy
wheels and its rims. During any small
accident, these parts get damaged, so will
your insurance
company give claim for them and if yes, then
what percentage claim will you get? How can you include your
alloys in your insurance
and if you want that every kind of
damage to these parts is covered by the insurance company, then
what should you do for that,
we will know all this in today's video.
If you want to cover the damages related to the tyres, rims, alloy wheels of your vehicle
in insurance, then the first condition is
that the damage caused to them should be due to an accident.
However, if there is a cut in the tyre
or the tyre gets flat, then the
insurance company does not cover such damages
because such damages are
seen as a defect of the manufacturer and they do
not come under the coverage of insurance claim. So, if you want to cover
such damages like bursting of tyre or cutting in it, then
you
can claim these in your insurance.
If your vehicle is under warranty by going to the manufacturer company's showroom, then if your
vehicle is old and you have got your tyres
replaced and those tyres are still new, then
also you can go to the tyre warranty and claim for the tyres
if there is any cut or
tear in them. Now friends, let's talk about
how much
percentage claim you will get if the insurance company accepts your claim, that is, if these parts are damaged in an accident, then first of all let's talk about tyres,
you get 50% claim for the tyres,
along with that if there is tube, then
you will get 50% claim for that too, whether your
policy is zero depression or a
normal insurance policy because tyres
and tubes are depreciable parts, that is, they wear out
with time,
so it is very difficult to define how much their life is, what is their
current value,
hence the standard rule is of
50% deduction, that is, you will be given a claim for 50% money after deduction.
Now the
second thing is about the rim, that is, the rim is such a
part that in case of an accident, it
After this, it has to be changed, so if
you have a Hero Depression policy, then
you will get its full 100% claim. If you have a
normal extension policy, then the amount saved due to the depression cat, i.e., wear and tear cat, as per the
future of your vehicle, will be given to
you as a claim.
Now, when it comes to alloy wheels, there are
two gold coins in alloy wheels. Firstly,
if the alloy wheel in your vehicle is
company fitted, that is,
you got it with your vehicle as standard fitment, then
your entire claim will be approved in it,
provided your policy is a zero depression
policy. But many times it happens that
we did not take the alloy wheel model
because its price was too high or
we did not like the design of the alloys of the company Filos, so we
also get alloys fitted from outside. How will you cover them in insurance?
Those
alloy wheels are not covered in the standard policy. If you want
that the alloys fitted from outside should also be covered
in your insurance policy, then
for that, you have to inform them at the time of purchasing the policy.
You will have to get it added to the policy. How will you get it added? There is a
clause for non-
electrical accessories in it, that is, the
value of non-electrical accessories
can be decided, which is the price of your alloy wheel.
After that, the insurance company will come to
know that you have got
alloy wheels installed in your vehicle from outside and at the time of claim,
it is also checking the value
of the alloy wheels and you will get the claim for it.
To justify this value, the insurance company
can also take the invoice of these alloys from you so that it can be justified
how much value your alloys are. Now, till
here we have discussed what kind of
claim
you will get if there is any loss in an accident, but if you want that
any kind of loss is covered like the tyre of the vehicle gets cut or
burst or there is any damage to your
tyres, alloy wheels and rims, then for that
you should
take tyre tax or tyre sealer add-on at the time of buying the policy.
After that, if the entire vehicle is fine and only the
tyres, rims or alloy wheels get damaged, then
that loss will also be borne by the insurance company
if you have taken this add-on.  I have added it
to my policy by paying extra money
because these losses are
not a part of a standard policy, you will have to
take this feature as an add-on only.
Friends, if you have any question related to the information seen in this video, then
definitely ask in the comment section. Friends, if you liked the
information seen in the video, then
like the video and definitely subscribe to the channel.
I am Harvinder Singh, we will meet you
in the next video. Take care, stay fit
and stay healthy. Jai Hind
[Music]